This is Practice of Docker and Container

What is Docker ??
->  Use to develop and run the application within Lightweight Containers.
    Docker helps to make Container.
    It provides Reproductivity and Standardization.

Two Important things in Docker.
    1) Docker Container
    2) Docker Image


Docker Container:-

1) A way to package application with all the necessary dependancies and configuration.
2) It has a Layers of Images. Mostly Linux base Image, bcz small in size.

application image on top layer.
alpine at bottom layer.

3) Portable artifact, easily shared and moved around.
4) Makes development and deployment more efficient.
5) Light-weight in nature. it is simple to make, delete and use.


Where do containers live ??
-> Container stores into Container Repository.
   many companies stores in their private Repositories
   In Public repository at docker hub.


How containers improved Application development ??
-> 
    Before containers:
    We directly installed required application manually in every system.
    Installation process is different on each OS environment.
    Many steps where something could go wrong as per complexity of application.

    After containers:
    We dont need to installed anything manually in our system.
    Because Container have their own Operating System with Linux based image.
    Packaged with all needed configuration in a single Container.
    One command to install the application.
    Run same app with 2 different versions.

How containers improved Application deployment ??
->
    Before Containers:
    we need to installed required things on operating system.
    dependency version conflicts.
    misunderstanding between developer and Operation team.

    After containers:
    Developers & Operations work together to package the whole configuration of dependancies of application in a Container.
    No other environment configuration needed on server. except docker runtime.


Docker Image :
    Docker image is the actual package with configuration and dependancies.
    It's an artifact that can be moved around is actual the image.
    it's not running.

Docker container:
    actually start the application.
    container environment is created.
    Container is running environment for Image.
    we can binded port.

container port vs Host port:

Multiple containers can run on your host machine.
Your laptop has only certain ports available.
conflict when same port on host machine.